1. If you have trained five different models on the exact same training data, and
they all achieve 95% precision, is there any chance that you can combine these
models to get better results? If so, how? If not, why?

You can combine these models into a voting ensemble to try to get better results. This works better on models that are very different,
and trained on different training instances, but it will still work as long as the models are very different.

2. What is the difference between hard and soft voting classifiers?

Hard voting classifiers:  counts the votes for each classifier in the ensemble and picks the classifier with most votes
Soft voting classifier: computes the average estimated class probability for each class and picks the class with the highest probability.
Gives high-confidence votes more weight, but only works if every classifier is able to estimate class probabilities.

3. Is it possible to speed up training of a bagging ensemble by distributing it across
multiple servers? What about pasting ensembles, boosting ensembles, random
forests, or stacking ensembles?

  It is possible to speed up training of bagging, pasting, and random forests because each predictor is independent of the others.
boosting ensemble predictors are built based on the previous predictor, so you separating training will not help.
For stacking ensembles, all predictors for one layer has to be trained before the next layer.


4. What is the benefit of out-of-bag evaluation?

Each predictor in a bagging ensemble is evaluated using instances it was not trained on. This creates an unbiased eval of the ensemble without the need
for a validation set. You can have more instances for training, and your ensemble can perform slightly better.

5. What makes Extra-Trees more random than regular Random Forests? How can
this extra randomness help? Are Extra-Trees slower or faster than regular Ran‐
dom Forests?

Extra-trees use random thresholds for each feature, instead of finding the best threshold. The extra randomness acts like a form of regularization 
and can be used to fix overfitting. However, this is neither faster nor slower than random forests when making decisions

6. If your AdaBoost ensemble underfits the training data, what hyperparameters
should you tweak and how?
  
If your AdaBoost ensemble is underfitting the training set, you can
try increasing the number of estimators or reductthe regularisation parameter of the base estimator

7. If your Gradient Boosting ensemble overfits the training set, should you increase
or decrease the learning rate?

learning_rate hyperparameter(also called shirinkage) scales the contribution of each tree. Recucing the learning_rate can reduce overfitting. Naive gradient boosting is the same as gradient boosting with 
shrinkage where the shrinkage factor is set to 1.0. Setting values less than 1.0 has the effect of making less corrections for each tree added to the model.
This in turn results in more trees that must be added to the model.
